# Roundup

You've asked all your questions and there is 15 minutes time still. Perfect. Let the interviewee know that this is all the questions you have and tell him, you've got 15 minutes time for him to ask anything he cares about. 

Be aware that this is the moment, when _power dynamics_ shift. Now it is you and your company that is under interview. If the candidate finds that he does not like the company, he will not sign a contract with you - even when offered one. 

When you ask the candidate for his questions, it is always good to ask something like: "What are your questions?" or "What can I tell you about the company or the team?" rather than "Is there anything you want to know". The latter is indicating that questions are not appreciated. It can happen quite often that candidates are a bit exhausted at this point and don't have questions prepared. In later stages of the interview process, they might also have asked a lot of questions before. If the candidate has no questions at hand, it's okay to encourage even more or offer some information from yourself: "I could tell you a bit about how we work in the team, if you wanted?" or "The company has some really interesting history. Has somebody told you about that already?".

Regardless of the question, stay positive but stick to the truth. There's no sense in selling something that does not exist. Especially when using a recruiter that asks for 25% of the annual salary, imagine the tragedy of a newjoiner resigning after weeks because the job was nowhere near to what was promised. If this helps, think of it this way: not any person will fit in your company, at the same time, you will not fit in any company either. If the candidate comes to that conclusion - that's okay. _Someone_ noticed this would not work and pulled the plug. 

What is very important is, to never tell the candidate directly in the interview if he failed or passed the interview. This might cause some discussion that helps nobody for one. But more importantly, telling a candidate he has passed an interview and then not proceeding with him might have legal implications in some countries. Finally, you might find yourself, changing your opinion about that in retrospect. This can happen - for example - when you talk to interview candidates you end up liking instantly. No problem with that. But at the end of the interview, you might be full of excitement, not seeing the negatives that were there too. It can take some hours for the excitement to settle. In retrospect you might realize that the candidate was not that great fit after all. 

Finish up the interview by thanking the candidate for his/her time and letting them know what the next steps are. Practically, this means: when will the final feedback from this interview arrive (and on what channel) and how many interviews are lining up. Please be sure that the information you give is accurate. Don't promise feedback the same afternoon, when it will actually take a week to be sent. 